README.md, before:

# react-photoswipe-gallery

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/dromru/react-photoswipe-gallery/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/dromru/react-photoswipe-gallery) [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-photoswipe-gallery.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-photoswipe-gallery)

> A configurable and flexible React component wrapper around [PhotoSwipe](https://photoswipe.com/).

## Basic Usage

```javascript
import 'photoswipe/dist/photoswipe.css'

import { Gallery, Item } from 'react-photoswipe-gallery'

const MyGallery = () => (
  <Gallery>
    <Item
      original="https://placekitten.com/1024/768?image=1"
      thumbnail="https://placekitten.com/80/60?image=1"
      width="1024"
      height="768"
    >
      {({ ref, open }) => (
        <img ref={ref} onClick={open} src="https://placekitten.com/80/60?image=1" />
      )}
    </Item>
    <Item
      original="https://placekitten.com/1024/768?image=2"
      thumbnail="https://placekitten.com/80/60?image=2"
      width="1024"
      height="768"
    >
      {({ ref, open }) => (
        <img ref={ref} onClick={open} src="https://placekitten.com/80/60?image=2" />
      )}
    </Item>
  </Gallery>
)
```

`<Gallery />` component ships with default PhotoSwipeUI and Layout. Such a setup is suitable for most cases. If you want more control, jump to [advanced usage example](#advanced-usage).

## Demo

Check out [storybook](https://dromru.github.io/react-photoswipe-gallery/) with source code examples.

## Installation

```shell
yarn add photoswipe@dimsemenov/photoswipe#v5-beta react-photoswipe-gallery@next
```

or

```shell
npm install git://github.com/dimsemenov/photoswipe#v5-beta react-photoswipe-gallery@next --save
```

## Advanced Usage

If you want to customize PhotoSwipe [layout](https://photoswipe.com/documentation/getting-started.html#init-add-pswp-to-dom) or use your PhotoSwipe UI, you should take `<CustomGallery />` component.

We also provide configurable `<DefaultLayout />`. It's suitable for most cases, and provide props for configuring all captions and removing unneeded UI elements.

Also, if you have more than one gallery instance in your view, we recommend reusing `<Layout />` between several `<CustomGallery />`.

```javascript
import PhotoswipeUIDefault from 'photoswipe/dist/photoswipe-ui-default'
import { CustomGallery, Item, DefaultLayout } from 'react-photoswipe-gallery'

const MyGallery = () => {
  const layoutRef = useRef()

  return (
    <CustomGallery layoutRef={layoutRef} ui={PhotoswipeUIDefault}>
      {/*...*/}
    </CustomGallery>

    <CustomGallery layoutRef={layoutRef} ui={PhotoswipeUIDefault}>
      {/*...*/}
    </CustomGallery>

    <DefaultLayout
      shareButton={false}
      fullscreenButton={false}
      zoomButton={false}
      ref={layoutRef}
    />
  )
}
```

## Hash Navigation

You should pass a unique `id` prop to `<Gallery />` or `<CustomGallery />` component, to enable hash navigation.

Optionally, you can also pass the `id` to `<Item />` component. Otherwise, the index will be used.

```javascript
const MyGallery = () => {
  <Gallery id="my-gallery">
    <Item
      id="first-pic"
      {/*...*/}
    />
    <Item
      id="second-pic"
      {/*...*/}
    />
  </Gallery>
}
```

## Props

### Gallery

> You can pass any of `DefaultLayout` [props](#default-layout-props) to `Gallery`.

<a name="gallery-props"></a>

| Prop | Type | Required | Description |
| - | - | - | - |
| `id` | Number or String | ✓ (for hash navigation) | Item ID, for hash navigation |
| `options` | Object | | PhotoSwipe [options](https://photoswipe.com/documentation/options.html) |
| `onOpen` | Function | | Triggers after `PhotoSwipe.init()` call. Use it for accessing PhotoSwipe [API](https://photoswipe.com/documentation/api.html). It will receive PhotoSwipe instance as the first argument: `(photoswipe: PhotoSwipe) => void` |

### Item

> Should be children of the `Gallery`.

<a name="item-props"></a>

| Prop | Type | Required | Description |
| - | - | - | - |
| `children` | Function | ✓ | Render prop for exposing `Gallery` API |
| `original` | String |  | Url of original image |
| `thumbnail` | String |  | Url of thumbnail |
| `width` | Number or String |  | Width of original image |
| `height` | Number or String |  | Height of original image |
| `title` | String |  | Title for Default UI |
| `html` | String |  | Html content, if you need to use it as modal |
| `id` | Number or String |  | Item ID, for hash navigation |

#### Note about Item's `children` render prop.

Item accepts only function as children.

```typescript
type RenderItem = (props: {
  /**
   * Required `ref` object to any html node of item
   *
   * Can be omitted if there is only one item in the gallery
   */
  ref: React.MutableRefObject;

  /**
   * Function that opens the gallery at the current item's index
   */
  open: () => void;
}) => JSX.Element

<Item>
  {({ ref, open }) => (
    <img ref={ref} onClick={open} />
  ) as RenderItem}
</Item>

<Item>
  {({ ref, open }) => (
    <span ref={ref}>Open gallery</span>
  ) as RenderItem}
</Item>
```

### CustomGallery

<a name="item-props"></a>

| Prop | Type | Required | Description |
| - | - | - | - |
| `layoutRef` | React.MutableRefObject<HTMLElement> | ✓ | Ref to your layout element |
| `ui` | PhotoSwipeUI | ✓ | PhotoSwipe UI class |
| `id` | Number or String | ✓ (for hash navigation) | Item ID, for hash navigation |
| `options` | Object | | PhotoSwipe [options](https://photoswipe.com/documentation/options.html) |
| `onOpen` | Function | | Triggers after `PhotoSwipe.init()` call. Use it for accessing PhotoSwipe [API](https://photoswipe.com/documentation/api.html). It will receive PhotoSwipe instance as the first argument: `(photoswipe: PhotoSwipe) => void` |

### DefaultLayout

> All props are optional.

<a name="default-layout-props"></a>

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - |
| `closeButtonCaption` | Object | 'Close (Esc)' | `.pswp__button--close` caption |
| `shareButtonCaption` | Object | 'Share' | `.pswp__button--share` caption |
| `toggleFullscreenButtonCaption` | Object | 'Toggle fullscreen' | `.pswp__button--fs` caption |
| `zoomButtonCaption` | Object | 'Zoom in/out' | `.pswp__button--zoom` caption |
| `prevButtonCaption` | Object | 'Previous (arrow left)' | `.pswp__button--arrow--left` caption |
| `nextButtonCaption` | Object | 'Next (arrow right)' | `.pswp__button--arrow--right` caption |
| `shareButton` | Boolean | `true` | Show `.pswp__button--share` |
| `fullscreenButton` | Boolean | `true` | Show `.pswp__button--fs` |
| `zoomButton` | Boolean | `true` | Show `.pswp__button--zoom` |

## Hooks

### `useGallery`

The `useGallery` hook returns an object with some useful methods.

| Property | Type | Description |
| - | - | - |
| `open` | (index: number) => void | This function allows programmatically open Photoswipe UI at `index`|



## Requirements

* react@16.8+
* [Map](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) [polyfill](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js) for older browsers

## Development

```shell
yarn install
yarn pnpify --sdk
```
then
```shell
yarn storybook
```
or
```shell
yarn start
```

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat(pswp-v5): remove custom gallery

README.md, after:

# react-photoswipe-gallery

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/dromru/react-photoswipe-gallery/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/dromru/react-photoswipe-gallery) [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-photoswipe-gallery.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-photoswipe-gallery)

> A configurable and flexible React component wrapper around [PhotoSwipe](https://photoswipe.com/).

> ℹ️ **react-photoswipe-gallery v2 only works with PhotoSwipe v5 and above. Use v1 for PhotoSwipe <= 4.**

## Basic Usage

```javascript
import 'photoswipe/dist/photoswipe.css'

import { Gallery, Item } from 'react-photoswipe-gallery'

const MyGallery = () => (
  <Gallery>
    <Item
      original="https://placekitten.com/1024/768?image=1"
      thumbnail="https://placekitten.com/80/60?image=1"
      width="1024"
      height="768"
    >
      {({ ref, open }) => (
        <img ref={ref} onClick={open} src="https://placekitten.com/80/60?image=1" />
      )}
    </Item>
    <Item
      original="https://placekitten.com/1024/768?image=2"
      thumbnail="https://placekitten.com/80/60?image=2"
      width="1024"
      height="768"
    >
      {({ ref, open }) => (
        <img ref={ref} onClick={open} src="https://placekitten.com/80/60?image=2" />
      )}
    </Item>
  </Gallery>
)
```

`<Gallery />` component ships with default PhotoSwipeUI and Layout. Such a setup is suitable for most cases. If you want more control, jump to [advanced usage example](#advanced-usage).

## Demo

Check out [storybook](https://dromru.github.io/react-photoswipe-gallery/) with source code examples.

## Installation

```shell
yarn add photoswipe@dimsemenov/photoswipe#v5-beta react-photoswipe-gallery@next
```

or

```shell
npm install git://github.com/dimsemenov/photoswipe#v5-beta react-photoswipe-gallery@next --save
```

## Advanced Usage

If you want to customize PhotoSwipe [layout](https://photoswipe.com/documentation/getting-started.html#init-add-pswp-to-dom) or use your PhotoSwipe UI, you should take `<CustomGallery />` component.

We also provide configurable `<DefaultLayout />`. It's suitable for most cases, and provide props for configuring all captions and removing unneeded UI elements.

Also, if you have more than one gallery instance in your view, we recommend reusing `<Layout />` between several `<CustomGallery />`.

```javascript
import PhotoswipeUIDefault from 'photoswipe/dist/photoswipe-ui-default'
import { CustomGallery, Item, DefaultLayout } from 'react-photoswipe-gallery'

const MyGallery = () => {
  const layoutRef = useRef()

  return (
    <CustomGallery layoutRef={layoutRef} ui={PhotoswipeUIDefault}>
      {/*...*/}
    </CustomGallery>

    <CustomGallery layoutRef={layoutRef} ui={PhotoswipeUIDefault}>
      {/*...*/}
    </CustomGallery>

    <DefaultLayout
      shareButton={false}
      fullscreenButton={false}
      zoomButton={false}
      ref={layoutRef}
    />
  )
}
```

## Hash Navigation

You should pass a unique `id` prop to `<Gallery />` or `<CustomGallery />` component, to enable hash navigation.

Optionally, you can also pass the `id` to `<Item />` component. Otherwise, the index will be used.

```javascript
const MyGallery = () => {
  <Gallery id="my-gallery">
    <Item
      id="first-pic"
      {/*...*/}
    />
    <Item
      id="second-pic"
      {/*...*/}
    />
  </Gallery>
}
```

## Props

### Gallery

> You can pass any of `DefaultLayout` [props](#default-layout-props) to `Gallery`.

<a name="gallery-props"></a>

| Prop | Type | Required | Description |
| - | - | - | - |
| `id` | Number or String | ✓ (for hash navigation) | Item ID, for hash navigation |
| `options` | Object | | PhotoSwipe [options](https://photoswipe.com/documentation/options.html) |
| `onOpen` | Function | | Triggers after `PhotoSwipe.init()` call. Use it for accessing PhotoSwipe [API](https://photoswipe.com/documentation/api.html). It will receive PhotoSwipe instance as the first argument: `(photoswipe: PhotoSwipe) => void` |

### Item

> Should be children of the `Gallery`.

<a name="item-props"></a>

| Prop | Type | Required | Description |
| - | - | - | - |
| `children` | Function | ✓ | Render prop for exposing `Gallery` API |
| `original` | String |  | Url of original image |
| `thumbnail` | String |  | Url of thumbnail |
| `width` | Number or String |  | Width of original image |
| `height` | Number or String |  | Height of original image |
| `title` | String |  | Title for Default UI |
| `html` | String |  | Html content, if you need to use it as modal |
| `id` | Number or String |  | Item ID, for hash navigation |

#### Note about Item's `children` render prop.

Item accepts only function as children.

```typescript
type RenderItem = (props: {
  /**
   * Required `ref` object to any html node of item
   *
   * Can be omitted if there is only one item in the gallery
   */
  ref: React.MutableRefObject;

  /**
   * Function that opens the gallery at the current item's index
   */
  open: () => void;
}) => JSX.Element

<Item>
  {({ ref, open }) => (
    <img ref={ref} onClick={open} />
  ) as RenderItem}
</Item>

<Item>
  {({ ref, open }) => (
    <span ref={ref}>Open gallery</span>
  ) as RenderItem}
</Item>
```

### CustomGallery

<a name="item-props"></a>

| Prop | Type | Required | Description |
| - | - | - | - |
| `layoutRef` | React.MutableRefObject<HTMLElement> | ✓ | Ref to your layout element |
| `ui` | PhotoSwipeUI | ✓ | PhotoSwipe UI class |
| `id` | Number or String | ✓ (for hash navigation) | Item ID, for hash navigation |
| `options` | Object | | PhotoSwipe [options](https://photoswipe.com/documentation/options.html) |
| `onOpen` | Function | | Triggers after `PhotoSwipe.init()` call. Use it for accessing PhotoSwipe [API](https://photoswipe.com/documentation/api.html). It will receive PhotoSwipe instance as the first argument: `(photoswipe: PhotoSwipe) => void` |

### DefaultLayout

> All props are optional.

<a name="default-layout-props"></a>

| Prop | Type | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - |
| `closeButtonCaption` | Object | 'Close (Esc)' | `.pswp__button--close` caption |
| `shareButtonCaption` | Object | 'Share' | `.pswp__button--share` caption |
| `toggleFullscreenButtonCaption` | Object | 'Toggle fullscreen' | `.pswp__button--fs` caption |
| `zoomButtonCaption` | Object | 'Zoom in/out' | `.pswp__button--zoom` caption |
| `prevButtonCaption` | Object | 'Previous (arrow left)' | `.pswp__button--arrow--left` caption |
| `nextButtonCaption` | Object | 'Next (arrow right)' | `.pswp__button--arrow--right` caption |
| `shareButton` | Boolean | `true` | Show `.pswp__button--share` |
| `fullscreenButton` | Boolean | `true` | Show `.pswp__button--fs` |
| `zoomButton` | Boolean | `true` | Show `.pswp__button--zoom` |

## Hooks

### `useGallery`

The `useGallery` hook returns an object with some useful methods.

| Property | Type | Description |
| - | - | - |
| `open` | (index: number) => void | This function allows programmatically open Photoswipe UI at `index`|



## Requirements

* react@16.8+
* [Map](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) [polyfill](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js) for older browsers

## Development

```shell
yarn install
yarn pnpify --sdk
```
then
```shell
yarn storybook
```
or
```shell
yarn start
```

## License

MIT
